
21. april 2004
Arbeiderpartiet
Stoltenberg på PES-kongress
Jens Stoltenberg skal førstkommende fredag og lørdag til Brussel for å delta på kongressen i The Party of European Socialists (PES). Der vil han møte statsministrer og partiledere fra hele Europa.
Selve kongressen holdes lørdag, men fredag skal statsministrer, partiledere og valgkandidater fra medlemspartiene i PES delta i en TV-overført debatt i Europaparlamentet som pågår fra kl.13.00 til 15.00. Her vil de bli utfordret på temaer som arbeid, kampen mot fattigdom, innvandring og integrering og Europas rolle i en tryggere og mer rettferdig verden.
Kongressen lørdag 24. april pågår fra kl. 09.45 til kl.15.30 på Bedford Hotel, Rue du Midi, Brussel. Her vil det først og fremst bli en debatt om hvordan PES skal styrkes. Kongressen skal også velge en etterfølger til Robin Cook som i dag er president i PES:
For akkreditering og praktiske opplysninger se vedlegg.
Vedlegg:
CONGRESS OF THE PARTY OF EUROPEAN SOCIALISTS
OPERATIONAL INFORMATION INCLUDING ACCREDITATION DETAILS
PES prime ministers, party chiefs and election candidates will take part in a televised debate from the "Espace Menuhin" of the European Parliament, Brussels, from 13h00 to 15h00 on Friday 23 April.
Robin Cook, President of the PES, will wind up the debate and present the PES election pledge card, to be used in campaigning across the 25 countries of the new European Union.
The PES Congress will take place from 09h45 to 15h35 on Saturday 24 April at the Bedford Hotel, Rue du Midi, Brussels. Congress delegates are to adopt the PES election manifesto and elect a new President. The Congress programme is set out at the end of this note.
Televised debate
Leading European journalist Jacki Davis, editor of E!Sharp magazine, will challenge participants on a series of election campaign issues. Themes will include jobs, the fight against poverty, managing migration and social integration and giving Europe a role in a more secure and just world.
The debate is to be broadcast live on Europe by Satellite. The European Parliament's audiovisual service will provide support services for other broadcasters.
Written press correspondents will be able to follow the debate from TV workstations in the press room. The discussion will also be transmitted to the Anna Lindh room on the first floor of the EP's Spaak building for journalists, delegates and others who will not have access to the set.
Journalists will be able to enter the Parliament using their normal EU institution press badges. Correspondents without EU press accreditation are asked to email pes@pes.org  to arrange for access.
Participants in the debate will arrive at the main entrance to the EP's Spaak building from 12h30. In addition to arrival shots and bilaterally arranged interview facilites in the entrance hall, a general photo opportunity will be available on the second floor of the building. This location is where participants will hold informal discussions before taking their places on the set. Access for cameras only will be on a first-come, first-served basis, within safety constraints.
A running order of contributions, with timings, will be issued later.
The Spokesman's Service will help as far as possible in arranging requests for interviews before or after the televised discussion. Interview requests should be addressed to pes@pes.org  or made using an interview request form available in the press room on Friday.
Participants in the 23 April discussion will take their places on the set from 12h45. Cameras will have free access to the set on a first-come, first-served basis, within safety constraints, from 12h30 until 12h55. Limited camera positions near the set are available to crews on a first-come, first-served basis.
Only EbS cameras, whose output will be available to all broadcasters, and the PES official stills photographer will have close access to the set during the broadcast.
We point out, in order to avoid confusion, that round table discussions organised by the European Parliament Socialist Group from 15h00 to 18h30 on 23 April, which a number of our party leaders and prime ministers will attend, are separate activities from the PES Congress.
Congress
PES President Robin Cook will open the day's business at 09h45 in the Bedford Hotel.
Technical issues will be dealt with in the opening session, from 10h00 to 11h15, including adoption of amendments to the PES statutes. The Party will set out its work programme for 2004 to 2006.
From 11h15 to 12h30 delegates will discuss ways of strengthening the Party of European Socialists.
The afternoon's business opens at 14h00 with the adoption of the PES manifesto for the European Parliament elections in June.
This will be followed by the election of a successor to PES President Robin Cook.
The new President will conclude the Congress at 15h30.
For interviews with PES prime ministers or party leaders, or any questions relating to the PES Congress, including the televised debate, please contact PES Spokesman Tony Robinson on +32-475-257410 or email Tony.Robinson@pes.org 
The latest news about Congress developments is available on the PES website -- www.pes.org 
